# **EE4C03 Adaptive ECG Noice Cancellation**
**Date: 05-11-2021**  
**Student: Xuan Gao, Milla Rahmadiva**  
All our simulations are tested on **MATLAB R2021b**
## Project Description
Electrocardiogram (ECG) dates back to 1842 when electrical activities of heart were first discovered. In 1942, Dutch physiologist W. Einthoven received the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine for his groundbreaking invention of electrocardiograph. After decades of development, ECG has been extensively used as an auxiliary measure in clinical diagnosis. It captures electrical signals generated by heart through which doctors can identify abnormal cardiac activities. Specifically, ECG is a function of time that tracks the sinus rhythm (Figure 1) of heart by placing electrodes on the skin. However, the signals can be distorted by various types of noise that could potentially entail misdiagnosis. As such, signal processing tools are essential to extract clean signals from the noisy measurements. In this project, we will deal with both stationary cases (e.g. white Gaussian noise) and non-stationary ones (e.g. electrode motion artifact). We pick and implement 4 appropriate filters from EE4C03 course that gives good performances. 

## **How To Verify Our Work**
Please follow the steps below.  
## **Step 1**  
 Install the following Add-on on MATLAB: `DSP System Toolbox`, `Signal Processing Toolbox`.  
## **Step 2**

```
git clone https://github.com/xuangao6/EE4C03_ADAPTIVE_ECG_NOISE_CANCELLATION/tree/master
```
There are 1 instance for the data `ECG_database.mat` and 5 instances for MATLAB codes in which `ee4c03_main.m` is the main file for our project.

For the main file, open `ee4c03_main.m` located at `.\EE4C03_ADAPTIVE_NOISE_CANCELLATION\ee4c03_main.m`.

For LMS algorithm, open `LMS.m` located at `.\EE4C03_ADAPTIVE_NOISE_CANCELLATION\LMS.m`.    

For NLMS algorithm, open `LMS.m` located at `.\EE4C03_ADAPTIVE_NOISE_CANCELLATION\NLMS.m`.

For RLS algorithm, open `LMS.m` located at `.\EE4C03_ADAPTIVE_NOISE_CANCELLATION\RLS.m`.

For PSD algorithm, open `LMS.m` located at `.\EE4C03_ADAPTIVE_NOISE_CANCELLATION\PSD.m`.

## **Step 3**
Run `ee4c03_main.m`, then you will get the same results as the figures located at `.\EE4C03_ADAPTIVE_NOISE_CANCELLATION\figures`.  

Make sure that all 6 files (ECG_database.mat and 5 MATLAB files) are in the same folder.

## **References**
Our referenced papers are located at `.\EE4C03_ADAPTIVE_NOISE_CANCELLATION\papers`.  
